[Draft] Mixxx 2.4 press information / release blogpost (#304)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XXXX-XX-XX-mixxx-2-4-0-features.md

title: Mixxx 2.4 Release
authors: Jörg Wartenberg
status: draft
tags: release, 2.4
comments: yes

> We are proud to announce Mixxx 2.4, which will be released NEXT WEEK, a new major version of our free open source DJ software. It took about two years since the last release due to the large number of new features and changes under the hood.

Reviewer: Even more nitpicky, but I would probably avoid the phrasing with "our". Given that users will likely read the blog post far into the future, I would also leave out the "next week" and just release the blog post simultaneously with the actual binaries:

```suggestion
We are proud to announce Mixxx 2.4, the next major release of the free and open source DJ software. This long awaited version includes many new features and improvements under the hood.
```

Author: This is the phrasing for the press information, that we will distribute in advance to the release. To give the DJ press the time to prepare their articles, videos etc.
Later we reuse the text for the blogpost and change this phrasing as you suggested.

Reviewer 2: I am ok with this being in the future tense, but I'd prefer not to promise a specific date because we really can't guarantee that.  Also don't use all-caps for emphasis, use bold or italics.
```suggestion
We are proud to announce a new major version of Mixxx which will be released in the next couple weeks. Version 2.4 took about two years since the last release due to the large number of new features and changes under the hood.
```

Author: NEXT WEEK is just a place holder

Reviewer 2: ok cool. for placeholders, the traditional keyword is "TK" or even "TKTKTKTKTKTK" (https://stevenpressfield.com/2016/05/the-magic-of-tk/)

> Here you can find some highlights of the Mixxx 2.4 features:

Reviewer: Perhaps we could shorten this a bit to avoid overly relying on addressing the reader with "you":

```suggestion
The 2.4 release includes the following highlights:
```

### EngineOS export
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine DJ OS devices (Denon and Numark standalone controllers).

> This allows users to prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx, export them on an USB stick and plug it to the standalone controller at your gig.

Reviewer: Typo:

```suggestion
This allows users to prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx, export them to a USB stick and plug it into the standalone controller at their gig.
```

Though I would probably reword it slightly:

```suggestion
This lets users prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx and export them to a USB stick for use on a standalone controller at their gig.
```

### Saved Loops
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for Saved Loops

> If you have already tracks with Saved Loops defined by Serato DJ, Mixxx 2.4 will automatically read them from the track metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have tracks with Saved Loops defined by Serato DJ, Mixxx 2.4 will automatically read them from the track metadata.
```

Perhaps even shorter:

```suggestion
If you already have tracks with Saved Loops from Serato DJ, Mixxx 2.4 will automatically read them from the track metadata.
```

> <video autoplay loop><source src="/images/news/SavedLoopsFeature.mp4" type='video/mp4'></video>

Reviewer 3: Thanks for making a video demo.

Instead of committing a 4 MB file into this git repo (which whill slow down cloning the repo without git-lfs), we should just upload it to the official Mixxx YouTube channel and use the YouTube embed mechanism (see below). This also allows us to get additional exposure on YouTube.

```suggestion
@Video(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INSERT_VIDEO_ID)
```

Author: I fear than we need to add this site to the Mixxx Privacy Policy. And we might need a cookie acceptance dialog.

Reviewer 4: Quick fix: screenshot linked to youtube who have their own GDPR dialog?

Else, we don't need to reinvent the wheel, there are many "youtube embed gdpr" code snippets that fetch the image, add the warning.

Reviewer 3: If you embed it like this, users already need to accept the YouTube terms before they can watch the video.

Example: https://mixxx.org/news/2020-08-22-portable-mixxx-setup/

Reviewer 4: okay, great

Author: Who has access to the "official Mixxx YouTube channel" ?

Reviewer 2: I do

Reviewer 4: (reminder: video needs to be updated once it's finalized https://mixxx.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/245858-promotion/topic/2.2E4.20Feature.20Video.3A.20EngineOS.20export)

### Effects

> Mixxx 2.4 introduces Effect Chains, a set of effects with parameters which can be saved and loaded with all it's parameters.

Reviewer 2: "it's" = "it is".  "its" "thing that belongs to it"
```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 introduces Effect Chains, a set of effects with parameters which can be saved and loaded with all its parameters.
```

In the effect units, Mixxx 2.4 visualizes these effect parameter by value, unit and knob position.
Once you've created an Effect Chain, you can also define individual Super Knob mappings, that allows to use it as Quick-Effect, where you take creative control with a single knob.

### Sync

> Mixxx 2.4 adds support to set an explicit leader for sync, by click on the new button with the crown symbol next to the Sync button.

Reviewer 2: we had to change this feature -- we don't want to call it "explicit leader" because that's technically been disabled.

```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for choosing the sync leader by clicking on the new button with the crown symbol next to the Sync button.
```

This mode is useful when tracks have variable BPM and sync is enabled, all the decks will follow the changing BPM of the sync leader.

### Track Menu
The track menu in Mixxx 2.4 is extended by several new features:

> - An action to select loaded track in library
> - An action to analyze/re-analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
> - An action for looking up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
> - An action to remove track files from disk

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- select loaded track in library
- re-/analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
- look up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
- remove track files from disk
```

Reviewer 4: _ping_

Reviewer 3: I agree, but please capitalize the bullet points.

### Many other changes

> #### Soundstrecher / Key-Shift-Algorithms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Soundstretcher / Key-Shift Algorithms
```

> Mixxx 2.4 supports now 3 alternative Key-Shift algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 now supports three different key shift algorithms:
```

> - Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - high performance)
> - Rubberband R2 (High audio quality - higher CPU usage)
> - Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)

Reviewer 3: let's make it easier to grasp for less technical users:

```suggestion
- Soundtouch (basic audio quality, for older computers)
- Rubberband R2 (high audio quality, recommended)
- Rubberband R3 (HiFi audio quality, for high-end computers only)
```

Author: Rubberband R2 is not that fast, in 4 deck mode I get always buffer underruns on a very fast Windows laptop. I wouldn't say Soundtouch is only for older computers.

Reviewer 4: ST is faster than RB so let's use
```suggestion
- Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - medium CPU usage)
- Rubberband R2 (High audio quality - higher CPU usage)
- Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)
```
If we really want to change the wording we should da that in the preferences first, then adopt for the release text.

tags: release, 2.4
comments: yes

We are proud to announce Mixxx 2.4, which will be released NEXT WEEK, a new major version of our free open source DJ software. It took about two years since the last release due to the large number of new features and changes under the hood.

The 2.4 release includes the following highlights:

### EngineOS export
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine DJ OS devices (Denon and Numark standalone controllers).
@Video(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qle9Y1KdD2Y)
This lets users prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx and export them to a USB stick for use on a standalone controller at their gig.

### Saved Loops
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for Saved Loops
If you already have tracks with Saved Loops from Serato DJ, Mixxx 2.4 will automatically read them from the track metadata.

<video autoplay loop><source src="/images/news/SavedLoopsFeature.mp4" type='video/mp4'></video>

### Effects
Mixxx 2.4 introduces Effect Chains, a set of effects with parameters which can be saved and loaded with all its parameters.
In the effect units, Mixxx 2.4 visualizes these effect parameter by value, unit and knob position.

> Once you've created an Effect Chain, you can also define individual Super Knob mappings, that allows to use it as Quick-Effect, where you take creative control with a single knob.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Mixxx 2.4 introduces Effect Chains, a set of effects which can be saved and reloaded with all its parameters and their individual Meta Knob mapping. Effect Chains can also be exported and imported, which allows to share them with others.
Once you've created an Effect Chain, you can define individual Super Knob mappings which allows to use it as Quick-Effect, where you take creative control with a single knob. Effect parameters can be reordered and or hidden.
In the effect units, Mixxx 2.4 also displays value and unit of effect knob parameters while they are being adjusted.
```

Reviewer 4: Note to myself:
create a short demo
* rearrange/hide parameters
* adjust Meta mapping
* save
* load to Quick Effect
* demo with music

Reviewer 4: > Note to myself: create a short demo
> 
> * rearrange/hide parameters
> * adjust Meta mapping
> * save
> * load to Quick Effect
> * demo with music?

### Sync
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for choosing the sync leader by clicking on the new button with the crown symbol next to the Sync button.
This mode is useful when tracks have variable BPM and sync is enabled, all the decks will follow the changing BPM of the sync leader.

### Track Menu
The track menu in Mixxx 2.4 is extended by several new features:
- An action to select loaded track in library
- An action to analyze/re-analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
- An action for looking up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
- An action to remove track files from disk

### Many other changes

#### Soundstretcher / Key-Shift Algorithms
Mixxx 2.4 now supports three different key shift algorithms:

> - Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - high performance)
> - Rubberband R2 (High audio quality - higher CPU usage)
> - Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - high performance)
 - Rubberband R2 (High audio quality - higher CPU usage)
 - Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)
```
otherwise the list is not rendered correctly.

#### Major rework of the Waveform Rendering code
Solves some long lasting performance issue, especially on macOS.

#### Native macOS ARM builds for M1/M2 Apple silicon

#### Controller Backend

> ES6 based controller mapping system
> HID backend rework

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
ES7 based controller mapping system.  
HID backend rework.
```

### Sync
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for choosing the sync leader by clicking on the new button with the crown symbol next to the Sync button.
This mode is useful when tracks have variable BPM and sync is enabled, all the decks will follow the changing BPM of the sync leader.

### Track Menu
The track menu in Mixxx 2.4 is extended by several new features:

- An action to select loaded track in library
- An action to analyze/re-analyze with variable/constant BPM on a per-track basis
- An action for looking up track metadata at Discogs, Soundcoud and LastFM
- An action to remove track files from disk

### Many other changes

#### Soundstretcher / Key-Shift Algorithms
Mixxx 2.4 now supports three different key shift algorithms:

- Soundtouch (Basic audio quality - high performance)
- Rubberband R2 (High audio quality - higher CPU usage)
- Rubberband R3 (HIFI audio quality - very high CPU usage)

#### Major rework of the Waveform Rendering code
Solves some long lasting performance issue, especially on macOS.

#### Native macOS ARM builds for M1/M2 Apple silicon

#### Controller Backend
ES7 based controller mapping system.  
HID backend rework.

## Mixxx 2.4 Factsheet

Supported platforms:

> - Windows7 or later on x64 processors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Windows 7 or later on x64 processors
```

> - Windows7 or later on x64 processors
> - macOS 10.12 or later on x64 processors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Windows 7 or later on x86_64 ("x64") processors
- macOS 10.12 or later on x86_64 processors
```

- macOS 11.0 or later on ARM processors (M1/M2 Apple silicon)

> - Ubuntu Linux 20.4 or later (other Linux distributions are supported by third-parties)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Ubuntu Linux 20.4 or later (other Linux distributions are supported by third parties)
```

Supported controllers:

- Mappings for 129 MIDI controllers included

> - Mappings for 16 HID controllers included

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a link to https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/hardware/manuals#controllers ?

> see the [full list](https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/hardware/manuals#controllers) of supported controllers in the Mixxx Manual

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

See the [full list](https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/hardware/manuals#controllers) of supported controllers in the Mixxx Manual
```

Reviewer 2: applied manually

### EngineOS export
Mixxx 2.4 adds support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine DJ OS devices (Denon and Numark standalone controllers).
@Video(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qle9Y1KdD2Y)

> This lets users prepare their tracks on a laptop using Mixxx and export them to a USB stick for use on a standalone controller at their gig.

Reviewer 5: I think we should credit @xsco here since they did the majority of the work (in terms of creating libdjinterop) as well as doing the integration work into mixxx.
